.\" @(#)ircd.8 7b8 05 Jan 2002
.TH IRCD 8 "05 Jan 2002" "UNIX" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
ircd \- The Internet Relay Chat Program Server 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.IP \fBircd\fP [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fIircd\fP is the server (daemon) program for the Internet Relay Chat
Program.  The \fIircd\fP is a server in that its function is to "serve"
the client program \fIirc(1)\fP with messages and commands.  All commands
and user messages are passed directly to the \fIircd\fP for processing
and relaying to other ircd sites.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \--configfile | -f\fP filename
Specifies an alternate configuration file to be used. This setting 
overrides the default configuration file ircd.conf. This file is used 
for both reading from and writing to while \fIircd\fP is running.
.TP
.B \--dirpath | -d\fP path
Specifies an alternate directory path where the ircd will search for its
configuration files.
.TP
.B \--version | -v
Makes \fIircd\fP print its version, and exit.
.TP
.B \--help | -h
Makes \fIircd\fP show a short help information.
.TP
.B \--debuglevel | -x\fP number
Specifies the debug level the ircd will start in. If not given, the \fIrcd\fP
will not run in debugmode. This option does not change the effect of the /set
command in an irc session
.TP
.B \--logging | -l
Tells the ircd to activate the logging facilities for events that have less
priority
.TP
.B \--webconfig | -w
Sets the ircd in web-configuration mode, modules are not loaded, the ircd
cannot be used to chat, only the web interface is activated to create a
working server config file. This mode requires the following two options
to run, otherwise, the ircd will exit.
.TP
.B \--webconfig-bind | -b \fP address
Specifies the address the httpd will bind to.
.TP
.B \--webconfig-port | -p \fP portnumber
Specifies the port the httpd will listen on.
.TP
.B \--foreground | -z
Makes the ircd run in foreground mode, it does not get daemonized.
.TP
.B \--root | -r
Makes the ircd run as the user root
.SH USAGE
If you plan to connect your \fIircd\fP server to an existing Irc-Network,
you will need to alter your local IRC configuration file (typically named
"ircd.conf") so that it will accept and make connections to other \fIircd\fP
servers.  This file contains the hostnames, Network Addresses, and sometimes
passwords for connections to other ircds around the world.  Because 
description of the actual file format of the "ircd.conf" file is beyond the
scope of this document, please refer to the file INSTALL in the IRC source
files documentation directory.
.LP
.SH BOOTING THE SERVER
The \fIircd\fP server can be started as part of the
Unix boot procedure or just by placing the server into Unix Background.
Keep in mind that if it is \fBnot\fP part of your Unix's boot-up procedure 
then you will have to manually start the \fIircd\fP server each time your
Unix is rebooted.  This means if your Unix is prone to crashing
or going for for repairs a lot it would make sense to start the \fIircd\fP
server as part of your UNIX bootup procedure.  
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
tolsun% \fBbin/ircd\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
Places \fIircd\fP into Unix background and starts up the server for use.
Note:  You do not have to add the "&" to this command, the program will
automatically detach itself from tty.
.RS
.nf
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
tolsun% \fBbin/ircd --webconfig -b 192.168.0.1 -p 8181 \fP
.fi
.RE
.LP  
Places \fIircd\fP into Unix background and starts up the web configuration
interface to enable the usage of a browser to configure the server.
.RS
.nf
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 1988,1989 University of Oulu, Computing Center, Finland,
.LP
(c) 1988,1989 Department of Information Processing Science,
University of Oulu, Finland
.LP
(c) 1988,1989,1990,1991 Jarkko Oikarinen
.LP
(c) 1997,1998,1999,2000,2001 The IRCD-Hybrid project.
.LP
(c) 2000,2001,2002,2003 The TR-IRCD project.
For full COPYRIGHT see LICENSE file with IRC package.
.LP
.RE
.SH FILES
 "ircd.conf"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ircd.conf(5)
.SH BUGS
None... ;-) if somebody finds one, please inform author
.SH AUTHOR
irc2.8 and earlier: Jarkko Oikarinen, currently jto@tolsun.oulu.fi.
.LP
ircd-hybrid-7: IRCD-Hybrid Project, ircd-hybrid@the-project.org.
.LP
tr-ircd5: TR-IRCD Project, tr-ircd@tr-ircd.net
.LP
manual page written by Jeff Trim, jtrim@orion.cair.du.edu,
later modified by jto@tolsun.oulu.fi.
.LP
modified for ircd-hybrid-7 by Edward Brocklesby, ejb@klamath.uucp.leguin.org.uk.
.LP
updated by W. Campbell, wcampbel@botbay.net
.LP
tr-ircd update by tr-ircd@users.sf.net

